# Spectral series data-sets

This folder contains spectral data, which is deliberated in the paper Sneppen et al. (2024), "Unified spectral series of the kilonova AT2017gfo:  Emergence and evolution of spectral features from r-process elements" (see Fig. "Unified_spectral_series.png" for illustration of the spectral evolution of features). We request that any use of the data whether compiled or re-reduced for this analysis includes appropriate citation to the original papers. From all telescopes, deredshifted and dereddened spectral reductions are provided. 

The spectra were obtained chronologically as follows (with time post-merger measured in the rest-frame of the host-galaxy):
- 0.48-0.53 days: Magellan (MagE and LDSS), see Shappee et al (2017) "Early spectra of the gravitational wave source GW170817: Evolution of a neutron star merger".
- 0.92 days: ANU 2.3m WiFeS, see Andreoni et al (2017) "Follow Up of GW170817 and Its Electromagnetic Counterpart by Australian-Led Observing Programmes".
- 1.17 days: SALT, see Buckley et al (2018), "A comparison between SALT/SAAO observations and kilonova models for AT 2017gfo: the first electromagnetic counterpart of a gravitational wave transient - GW170817". Re-reductions using various standard stars (as deliberated in Sneppen et al. (2024)  "Unified spectral series of the kilonova AT2017gfo:  Emergence and evolution of spectral features from \rprocess elements") are provided in folder "1.17 days - SALT spectra". 
- 1.43-9.4 days: VLT (X-shooter), see Pian et al (2017) "Spectroscopic identification of r-process nucleosynthesis in a double neutron-star merger", Smartt et al (2017) "A kilonova as the electromagnetic counterpart to a gravitational-wave source". Re-reductions tracing the evolution between individual exposures with X-shooter at 1.4 days can be seen in Sneppen et al (2024) "Kilonova evolution --- the rapid emergence of spectral features"
- 1.47-10.5 days: SOAR and Gemini, see respectively Nicholl et al (2017) "The Electromagnetic Counterpart of the Binary Neutron Star Merger LIGO/Virgo GW170817. III. Optical and UV Spectra of a Blue Kilonova from Fast Polar Ejecta" and Chornock et al (2017) "The Electromagnetic Counterpart of the Binary Neutron Star Merger LIGO/Virgo GW170817. IV. Detection of Near-infrared Signatures of r-process Nucleosynthesis with Gemini-South"
- 4.9-9.4: HST, see Tanvir et al (2017) "The Emergence of a Lanthanide-rich Kilonova Following the Merger of Two Neutron Stars"

Spectra from the 6.5 meter Magellan Telescopes (0.49 and 0.53 days) located at Las Campanas Observatory, Chile, can be found at: https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.05432. The 0.92 day spectra were obtained with the Australian National University (ANU) the 2.3 meter telescope located at Siding Spring Observatory. The 1.17 day data obtained with the Southern African Large Telescope (SALT) under the Director’s Discretionary Time programme 2017-1-DDT-009, are available at https://ssda.saao.ac.za with the newly reduced spectra (e.g. with improved flux-calibration now publically available here. X-shooter data from European Space Observatory (ESO) telescopes at the Paranal Observatory under programmes 099.D-0382 (principal investigator [PI]: E. Pian), 099.D-0622 (PI: P.D’Avanzo), 099.D-0376 (PI: S.J. Smartt), which are available at http://archive.eso.org and WISeREP (https://wiserep.weizmann.ac.il/). The re-reduced X-shooter spectra examining evolution in sub-epoch exposures at 1.4 days are made available here for the first time. The SOAR and Gemini data can be accessed at: https://kilonova.org. HST observations were obtained using programs GO 14771 (PI: N. Tanvir), GO 14804 (PI: A. Levan), GO 14850 (PI: E. Troja).
